# Pillux-Source-Code

Pillux is a device made that can detect substandard pills by means of comparing the surface features of two pills. The surface features are measured through light scattering and color feedback. A laser is directed towards the pill's body and the resulting reflected light intensity is measured using a lux sensor, alongside the R,G, and B color value intensities which are measured using an RGB Sensor. Both sensors are soldered to a prototyping board and are connected to an Arduino MEGA board. In order to obtain simultaneous readings from both sensors, a multiplexor is used in the arduino connection setup. The setup includes two push buttons (labelled Control and Reset), and four LEDs (labelled Ready I which is orange, Ready II which is yellow, Good which is green, and Bad which is red). The user places the first pill, which is assumed to have uniform, or non-substandard features; this is indicated by the first 'Ready I' LED lighting up (the other LEDs are not lit up yet). The light intensity and R,G, and B values are recorded and stored in the Arduino MEGA's dynamic memory after the user presses the control button. After the Arduino stores these values, the second LED lights up (Ready II) to indicate that the user should now input the X pill (the pill whose surface features are unknown and are being tested). After the user places the pill and presses the control button, then the program compares the R,G,B values and the light intensity values of the second pill to those of the first pill, and a certain "good/bad threshold" is specified for each type within the Pillux Source Code. If the good threshold is satisfied, then the Good LED will light up to mark that the second pill is good relative to the first one; whereas, if the bad threshold is satisfied, then the Bad LED will light up to mark that the second pill is bad relative to the first one. After the user perform the first test, they can conduct more tests by pushing the reset button, which would return the LED state to 'Ready I,' and the user would follow the same steps noted above. 

The comments included in the Pillux Source indicate the step-by-step process for the detection of substandard pills by means of comparative analysis of surface features; this is in Pillux_Source_Code.cpp, written in C/C++ using the Arduino Integrated Development Environment (IDE). 
